# micromapST
R package designed to make graphical data analysis easy for every one.  

This package provide a quick method for generating linked micromaps to enhance a user's ability to explore their data and develop some initial hypothosis.  The user can use micromapST to spend more time looking at his/her data and it's relationship to other criteria and less time programming and chancing down programing problem and bug.  
The link micromaps are high quality and can be used for publications of your initial findings. The graphics (or glyphs) provided in the package are: maps, area ids, dot plots, dot confidence plots, dot standard error plots, bar plots, boxplots, stacked bar charts with standard chart from the left, a centered chart around zero, a normalized chart from 0 to 100%, scattered dot charts, time series charts and time series charts with confidence banding, arrow plots, and several more.  Most of the plots needed are already included in the package.  

For user's outside the United States, the micromapST package can be extended to map counties in states, provinces in non-U.S. counties, countries on a continent like Africa and Europe, districts in a city, research registeries in a region, and more. 
The package contains border groups (collections of bourdary data for a set of areas (states, counties, countries) and a name table to map location IDs in your data to the boundary data to draw the micromaps for the linked micromap graphic.  The package contains border group contains datasets for:  U. S. States and DC, U. S. NCI Seer Registries, Maryland Counties, New York Counties, Utah Counties, Kansas Counties, provinces in China, districts in the city of Seuol S. Korea.  (check this list).   The package now has a new function - "BuildBorderGroup".  After manually creating all of the border groups contained in the package, this experience has been pulled together to create a function to help a user build his own border group for the geographic area they have data and are interested in researching.  On most computers building a border group only take a few minutes.  Link micromaps have a limitation of how many areas can be display and shaded at one time to be useful.  It has been found the upper limit for a 8x11 graphic is about 75 area.  Larger sizes of graphics areas (essentually bigger paper) and support 130 areas on a 11x17 space.  Many states or countries have established definitions of our their areas can be aggregated into less areas and provide more meaningful linked micromaps.

micromapST Verson 1.1.3 (the current version on CRAN) is the same as the new Version 2.0.0 without the BuildBorderGroup function.  But Version 2.0.0 is on it's way out toward CRAN.

micromapST itself generates the linked micromap graphics in a matter of a few seconds.  This makes it easy to explore the data, change which data is being displayed, change the glyph used to display the data.  

Once you essentually have your answers, you can create your presentation graphics with micromapST or choice any package you want.  The main task of finding the important information has been completed.
